So now, let's talk about placement groups.
Placement groups are a little bit more advanced,
and we wanna use them once,
we want to have control over how our EC2 instances
are going to be placed within the AWS infrastructure.
So that strategy can be defined
using these placement groups.
So we don't get direct interaction with the hardware of AWS,
but we let AWS know how we would like our EC2 instance
to be placed compared to one another.
So when you create a placement group,
you have three strategies available for you.
You have the cluster placement group in which your instances
will be grouped together in a low-latency hardware setup
within a single availability zone.
This is going to give you high performance but high risk.
We'll see this in details in a second.
Spread means that your instances
are going to be spread across different hardware,
and there is a restriction on this.
That means you can only have seven EC2 instance
per placement group that spread per AZ.
So you would use a spread placement group
when you have critical applications.
Finally, the last one is a new kind
of placement group that is really helpful.
It's called partition.
It's similar to the spread,
meaning that you want to spread your instances,
but here, they're spread across many different partitions.
And these partitions rely on different sets of racks
of hardware within an AZ.
What does that mean is that they're still spread,
but they're not isolated one from another failure,
but a partition should be isolated
from another partition of failure.
The idea with this is that you can scale to hundreds
of EC2 instances per group, and that allows you
to run applications such as Hadoop,
Cassandra, or Kafka.
Now, let's have a look into each
of these placement groups in details.
So next, we have the cluster placement group,
and all your EC2 instances are going to be
in the same availability zone.
So why do we do this?
Well, this particular placement group
gives you great networking.
So you have around 10 gigabits per second
of bandwidth between all these instances
that will have enhanced networking enabled.
And so you get low latency, high throughput network.
And the idea is that out of this,
you can get great performance
for any kind of computational job.
So a drawback of using this architecture
is that if your availability zone fails,
then all the instances will fail at the same time.
But usually, for use case, this is fine.
So the use cases for this kind of placement group
are big data jobs that need to complete very fast
with very high networking
or applications that need extremely low latency
and high throughput network
between each instance of your application.
Now, spread is the complete opposite.
In spread, we want to minimize the failure risk.
And so in this case, when we ask for spread placement group,
all the EC2 instances are going to be located
on different hardware.
So as you can see here, we have three AZ,
and we have six EC2, and each EC2 instance
is on a different hardware.
So what does that mean?
Well, what we get is that we can span across multiple AZ,
and there is a reduced risk of simultaneous failure.
Why?
Well, because if my hardware one fails,
I'm pretty sure my hardware two will not fail.
And so we've separated the risk
of my two instances in the Us-east-1a
to fail at the same time.
And so that's the benefit from it.
The con is that from this configuration,
we're limited to seven instances per AZ per placement group.
So there is a limit to how big your placement group can be.
And so you need to have application
that's gonna be of good size but not too big.
The use case would be an application that needs to maximize
high availability and reduce the risk.
And in general, for critical applications
where your instance failures must be isolated
from one another.
Remember, here, we have a limitation
of seven instances per AZ per placement group.
Now, for the partition placement group,
we can have instances spread across partitions
in multiple available T-zones.
So we can have up to seven partitions per AZ.
So in this example, we have partition one
and partition two in us-east-1a
and partition three in us-east-1b.
And on each partition, you can have many EC2 instances.
So in the first one have four,
and the second one have four,
and the third one have four as well.
So why do we use a partition placement group?
Well, each partition represents a rack in AWS.
And so by having many partitions, you're making sure
that your instances are distributed
across many hardware racks, and so therefore,
they're safe from a rack failure from one another.
So you can have up to seven partitions per AZ,
and these partitions can span
across multiple availability zones in the same region.
You can get up to hundreds of EC2 instances with the setup.
So this is a difference
versus the spread type of placement group.
And as I said, the instances in the partition
do not share the same hardware physical rack
with the instances in the other partitions,
and therefore, each partition is isolated from failure.
So that means that, yes, if one goes down,
if partition goes down, the partition number two,
then partition number one should be fine.
And to know which partition these EC2 instances are on,
there is an option to access this information
with using the metadata service.
So when would you use a partition placement group?
Well, when you have an application
that it can be partition aware to distribute the data
and your servers across partitions.
And usually, the use cases
are going to be big data applications
which are partition aware, such as using HDFS,
HBase, Cassandra, and Apache Kafka.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.